# Assignment 5: Animation with Cloth Simulation

## Introduction

In this assignment, you are required to implement the most simplest cloth simulation based on mass spring system to do a physically based animation.
The template code is implemented with OpenGL, which you should have been very familiar with.

You can click the [link](https://classroom.github.com/a/xutV4gHn) to accept the homework from GitHub classroom.

In the following, we will give you the specifics about what you need to accomplish, as well as some related guidelines to assist your programming. When you have finished all your work, you will need to complete an assignment report (in report directory) to show how you completed the assignment, which needs to be written using LATEX.

## Programming Requirements

### Must

- Force computation with Hooke's law (30 pts)
- Structural, shear, and bending springs (40 pts)
- Fix the location of two mesh points to stop the cloth falling down (10 pts)
- Real-time and stable animation (10 pts)

### Bonus

- Apply external forces to the cloth to simulate the behavior of wind (5 pts)
- Add a sphere or cube obstacle to simulate a piece of cloth falling on a sphere or a cube with collision handling (10 pts)
- Drag a mesh point to move the cloth with mouse in real-time (15 pts)
- Handle self collision detection (30 pts)

## Demonstration Requirements

In addition to programming, you will also need to demonstrate your code to TAs.

Things you should prepare:

- Explain how you implement the force computation with Hooke's law.
- Explain how you implement structural, shear, and bending springs.
- Fix the position of two mesh points at the left-top and right-top corners of the cloth mesh. Simulate your cloth falling down with gravity until it stops.
- For the optional part, explain your implementation and show it! Please show us proper example animations to demonstrate your result.

## Submission

You are required to push following items to GitHub repository:

- Your source codes.
- A PDF-formatted report. You should use the LaTeX template we provided.

Submission deadline: **22:00, December 11, 2022**

## Grading Rules

- You will get additional scores if you choose to do bonus items. Please prepare convincing results to prove that your implementation of bonus item(s) is(are) correct. The maximum additional score is 30 points.
- NO CHEATING! You should work independently. Please note that the images you submitted or showed to TAs when doing offline check should be generated by the code you pushed on GitHub. We will run your code on GitHub to verify that.
- Late submission will be subject to score deduction rules on the course website.

## Skeleton Project/Report Template

The skeleton program and report template will be provided once you accept the assignment link of GitHub classroom which we published in Piazza. If you accept the assignment through link properly, a repository which contains the skeleton project and report template will be created under your GitHub account. Please follow the template to prepare your report.

## Implementation Guide

**We strongly recommend you to come to the tutorial, watch the tutorial video, or read the tutorial PPT first.**

### Force Computation with Hooke's Law

Hooke's law is used as the model to compute forces between two mesh points.
You may find more knowledge about Hooke's law in this [site](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hooke's_law).

### Structural, Shear, and Bending Springs

Three kinds of springs are used to better simulate the cloth behavior.
You may find more knowledge about this 3 kinds of springs in this [site](http://graphics.stanford.edu/courses/cs468-02-winter/Papers/Rigidcloth.pdf).

### Fix the position of two mesh points to stop the cloth falling down

Fix the position of two mesh points at the left-top and right-top corner of the cloth. Simulate your cloth falling down with gravity until it stops.

### Real-Time and Stable Animation

The system may become unstable if you choose the wrong cloth parameters or too large time interval during time integration. Try to make it stable by tuning these parameters during your test.

### Expected Results for Must Part



<video width="490" height="270" controls="" style="caret-color: rgb(0, 0, 0); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: &quot;Trebuchet MS&quot;, sans-serif; font-style: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: auto; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: auto; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: auto; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration: none;"></video>

### Optional: Simulate Wind

<video width="490" height="270" controls="" style="caret-color: rgb(0, 0, 0); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: &quot;Trebuchet MS&quot;, sans-serif; font-style: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: auto; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: auto; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: auto; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration: none;"></video>

### Optional: Sphere Collider

<video width="490" height="270" controls="" style="caret-color: rgb(0, 0, 0); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: &quot;Trebuchet MS&quot;, sans-serif; font-style: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: auto; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: auto; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: auto; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration: none;"></video>



### Optional: Drag Masses with Mouse

Click maybe the left button of your mouse to select a mass. The selected mesh point will be fixed at your mouse position and you can drag it. The entire cloth will move with your mouse.

### Optional: Handle Self Collision Detection

The cloth will collide with itself when it bends, try to handle this.